[Music]
well shit
it's depressing when you look at this
particular genre of anime anything to do
with sports and anime have been
receiving a bad rap for years perhaps in
tandem with the thought that since
sports video games are just the same
drivel year after year and the only
people that seem to enjoy real-life
sports and those that have been fans for
a very long period of time that's
anything sports related in an anime will
be as boring and uninteresting to the
casual viewer as the aforementioned
sports related things just look at the
baseball drama big windup despite having
multiple seasons receiving fairly decent
reviews and being an all-around decent
show Funimation has absolutely no
intention of importing more than the
first season to North America and why is
this because sports anime does not sell
an anime fans can't seem to be arsed to
try anything sports related maybe with
some ingrained thought that no sports
are only meant for jocks and the like
you know junks those guys that used to
beat you up and steal your lunch money
and you being a stereotypical nerd
should have nothing to do with stuff
that they like and let me tell you
something if this is indeed your mindset
when it comes to sports related anime
then you better stop watching my little
pony because you definitely aren't a
little girl either well duh bamboo blade
is a Sports anime that does not heavily
rely on its featured sport to be
entertaining
unlike shows like angelic layer where
the main focus of the plot is the
progression of a major tournament to
completion bamboo blade instead focuses
on the main characters rather than the
tournaments leaving the tournaments to
be just a sideline plot point the show
takes place at Moroi high because you
know what doesn't take place at high
school these days and we follow the
exploits of the school's kendo team its
current lack of members and its teacher
advisor who's more broke than I am after
an anime con the major arc at the
beginning of the show is that a bet
occurs between muroids advisor and his
senpai who coincidentally is the advisor
to not one but two schools
simultaneously the bet that they make
turns into a non-traditional dick off as
it becomes a competition of who can
train the better kendo team and it's
here that we get a feeling for the
motivations behind murrow's advisor
since he agrees to this bed regardless
of only having a fifth of a total kendo
team to compete with at the time
so the first 10 episodes of bamboo blade
consists of finding four more members to
recruit to the team so
we can make constant super sentai
references because that is what you do
when you have five teenagers with
attitude some with more attitude than
others so we have Kira know the
hyperactive leader with leader in
quotation marks saya Cody wannabe
musical artist Mia Mia the quite literal
Jacqueline hide azimuth shows version of
Where's Waldo and Tama the miracle
genius child who fights for justice and
never loses giving me another character
to add to my list of patients suffering
from Takumi syndrome the heart and soul
of bamboo blade is not in fact the kendo
battles which should not by any stretch
of the imagination be your reasoning for
watching this show nor is the pretty
pictures even though the animation
bamboo blade is gorgeous no the heart
and soul of the show is the character
development and the quirky humor that
makes you smile from time tonight
because you know watching characters
that have the statistical probability of
existing in the same place at the same
time is somewhere between world peace
and receiving a one-way trip to Millie
ways never loses its appeal the
character development plots are really
well put together the ones for BM en
tama being the highlights mia starts off
as a person who never really saw the
appeal and can no only to realize that
it was the perfect way to let out her
inner demon and frustrations onto the
world and Tama is from a kendo family
and as such has always considered kendo
to be more of a job or a chore rather
than a sport that she could enjoy but
with the help of her teammates
eventually comes around to thinking of
kendo as a very fun activity to enjoy
with friends on the downside though it
is depressing that other main characters
such as SIA and Azzam I never really get
a plot focused and it would have been
interesting to dive into their
particular characters a little more
besides the surface view of a failing
magician and that random background girl
who makes it appearance every couple
episodes before finally becoming a main
character but it's not necessarily a bad
thing it's just more of a disappointed
sentiment from a guy who wished the show
went on longer the guy is me by the way
just in case you're wondering as far as
the dub goes even by Funimation
standards bamboo blade is very well
scripted and acted making a high point
in my watching career as a show that was
able to break the mold for me I usually
have a habit of sticking to the language
in which I saw a show first in this case
I watched bamboo blade in Japanese when
it first came out in Japan but in the
case of this show I can say that I have
absolutely no problem watching the
English and actually in some cases I
actually prefer the English if the show
had a lot more technical dialogue
towards the sport of kendo itself I
would probably heavily lean towards the
tub over the sub but at this juncture I
think both are very good in their own
ways and you can decide for yourself
depending on your own personal
preferences and besides kendos pretty
easy to follow along anyway is just a
bunch of baloney no no no au contraire
mon frere BMO like a no the most
depressing thing I feel with bamboo
blade is the sudden hint of a second
season in the very very final moments of
the show and this is something that
annoys me because the ending was doing
ridiculously well you all know that to
me the ending is paramount so I was
looking really forward to this doing as
well as it was cuz we were getting down
it was only like two or three minutes
left it was ending it was nice solid
complete I was happy and in the final
moments hey guys there could be a season
two oh my god wouldn't that be amazing
ah no it would not because since bamboo
blade was released back in 2007 a second
season at this point being 2012 is very
unlikely
why do shows do that there is way moving
on as much as bamboo blade focuses on
the sport of kendo and those who
practice it it's not necessarily about
kendo itself which is refreshing and
easy to follow for someone who does not
really know the sport itself beyond what
the show tells you what makes it great
are the characters and how they interact
with one another in the obstacles ahead
of them basically bamboo blade is a
sports anime for non-sports fans cuz you
don't really need to care about kendo to
care about the characters thankfully it
also has a pretty good dub to boot so
you know what I say I say buy it it's a
refreshing change of pace from both the
hardcore action romps on the overplayed
fanservice show's filling up the market
and it's worth its place on anyone's
shelf but if you've seen it you're
looking for something more check out big
wind-up you might enjoy that too or you
could basically check out every five men
cent I show in existence granted bamboo
blade is a lot more tamer than those are
on the action front so enjoy yourselves
with it and until next time ladies
gentlemen
others stay frosty
[Music]
you